BYLAWS OF RepRap Research Foundation

ARTICLE I - NAME, PURPOSE

Section 1: The name of the organization shall be RepRap Research Foundation, abbreviated RRRF

Section 2: The RepRap Research Foundation is organized exclusively
for charitable, scientific and educational purposes, more specifically to promote research in self-replicating manufacturing systems
and to distribute the results of that research freely to everybody using open-source licensing. Due to the physical nature of the project
this means we will buy and sell research materials at a low cost to researchers.

ARTICLE II - MEMBERSHIP

Section 1: Membership of the RRRF shall be free.

Section 2: All members of the RRRF shall abide by all the rules of the RRRF.

Section 3: Membership of the RRRF shall be open to any person who does not break the RRRF’s rules.

Section 4: All members of the RRRF are encouraged to publish all the results of their research on self-replicating manufacturing systems in such a way as to make them freely available to everyone under an open-source licence, for example at objects.reprap.org.

Section 5: There shall be no corporate or organizational membership of the RRRF. However, as many people who are members of any corporation or organization and who wish may join as individual members of the RRRF.

Section 6: People who are minors in their country of residence must obtain permission from their parent or guardian to become members of the RRRF, and that parent or guardian must agree that the minor will abide by all the rules of the RRRF.

Section 7: Members of the RRRF shall be entitled to place the letters MRRRF after their name.

ARTICLE III - ANNUAL MEETING

Section 1: Annual Meeting. The date of the regular annual meeting shall
be set by the Board of Directors who shall also set the time and place.

Section 2: Special Meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Chair
or the Executive Committee.

Section 3: Notice. Notice of each meeting shall be given to each voting
member, by electronic mail, not less than ten days before the meeting.

Section 4: Meeting Format. Due to the highly distributed nature of the board, meetings shall generally be conducted via email, IRC, and Skype.  Voting shall take place via email, or by using online polling software.  All members shall be allowed 3 days from the initial announcement email to cast their votes.

ARTICLE IV - BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Section 1: Board Role, Size, Compensation. The Board is responsible for
overall policy and direction of the Council, and delegates responsibility
for day-to-day operations to the Council Director and committees. The Board
shall have up to 9 and not fewer than 4 members. The board
receives no compensation other than reasonable expenses.

Section 2: Meetings. The Board shall meet at least once a year, at an
agreed upon time and place.

Section 3: Board Elections. Election of new directors or election of
current directors to a second term will occur as the first item of business
at the annual meeting of the corporation. Directors will be elected by a
majority vote of the current directors.

Section 4: Terms. All Board members shall serve 2 year terms, but
are eligible for re-election.

Section 5: Quorum. A quorum must be attended by at least 50 percent
of the Board members before business can be transacted or motions made or
passed.

Section 6: Notice. An official Board meeting requires that each Board
member have written notice 10 days in advance.

Section 7. Officers and Duties. There shall be five officers of the Board
consisting of a Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary and Treasurer. Their duties
are as follows:

The Chair shall convene regularly scheduled Board meetings, shall preside
or arrange for other members of the executive committee to preside at each
meeting in the following order: Vice-Chair, Secretary and Treasurer.

The Vice-Chair will chair committees on special subjects as designated
by the board.

The Secretary shall be responsible for keeping records of Board actions,
including overseeing the taking of minutes at all board meetings, sending
out meeting announcements, distributing copies of minutes and the agenda
to each Board members, and assuring that corporate records are maintained.

The Treasurer shall make a report at each Board meeting. Treasurer shall
chair the finance committee, assist in the preparation of the budget, help
develop fundraising plans, and make financial information available to Board
members and the public.

Section 8: Vacancies. When a vacancy on the Board exists, nominations
for new members may be received from present Board members by the Secretary
two weeks in advance of a Board meeting. These nominations shall be send
out to Board members with the regular Board meeting announcement, to be
voted upon at the next Board meeting. These vacancies will be filled only
to the end of the particular Board member's term.

Section 9: Resignation, Termination and Absences. Resignation from the
Board must be in writing and received by the Secretary. A Board member shall
be dropped for excess absences from the Board if s/he has three unexcused
absences from Board meetings in a year. A Board member may be removed for
other reasons by a three-fourths vote of the remaining directors.

Section 10: Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board shall be
called upon the request of the Chair or one-third of the Board. Notices
of special meetings shall be send out by the Secretary to each Board member
postmarked two weeks in advance.

ARTICLE V - COMMITTEES

Section 1: The Board may create committees as needed, such as fundraising,
housing, etc. The Board Chair appoints all committee chairs.

Section 2: The five officers serve as the members of the Executive Committee.
Except for the power to amend the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws,
the Executive Committee shall have all of the powers and authority of the
Board of Directors in the intervals between meetings of the Board of Directors,
subject to the direction and control of the Board of Directors.

Section 3: Finance Committee. The Treasurer is chair of the Finance Committee,
which includes three other Board members. The Finance Committee is responsible
for developing and reviewing fiscal procedures, a fundraising plan, and
annual budget with staff and other Board members. The Board must approve
the budget, and all expenditures must be within the budget. Any major change
in the budget must be approved by the Board or the Executive Committee.
The fiscal year shall be the calendar year. Annual reports are required
to be submitted to the Board showing income, expenditures and pending income.
The financial records of the organization are public information and shall
be made available to the membership, Board members and the public.

ARTICLE VI - DISSOLUTION

Section 1: Upon dissolution of RepRap Research Foundation, remaining assets must be donated to leading researchers in the RepRap project, to be determined by a vote of the Board.

ARTICLE VII - AMENDMENTS
	
Section 1: These Bylaws may be amended when necessary by a two-thirds
majority of the Board of Directors. Proposed amendments must be submitted
to the Secretary to be sent out with regular Board announcements.

These Bylaws were approved at a meeting of the Board of Directors of RepRap Research Foundation on _______________________, 2008.